I don't know about you but everybody is
talking about Rising costs the prices
are simply too high and I'm about to
tell you why these are going to be
considered the good old days you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you today we got to talk about money
and it's going to be something
interesting because I'm about to show
you why things are about to get a lot
crazier not just a little bit not just
incrementally but we're talking about
Stratosphere up into outer space things
are going to get wild there are a few
things that are coming in the next two
months that you need to be aware of I've
talked about that before at length and I
want to bring them up again in this
video this will be the most important
video you watch all week first things
first the btfp is ending that is the
bank term funding program that's the
Emergency Loans set up for the banks
back last year in March of 2023 if it
was one year it's expiring March who is
most dependent on those the small Banks
the small banks are the ones that really
need it as a lifeline and that's about
to expire keep that in mind all right
next thing reverse repo is possibly
going to be at zero as of March okay
reverse repos are there to basically
like a vacuum to suck up the liquidity
if they are not there something else is
going to fill in the void or else we're
going to have some very big problems and
this is like think about the plumbing of
the financial system suddenly you've got
a clog okay and then fed cuts and QT
quantitative tightening are up in the
air whether it happens in March some say
that we will find out as early as
February so we get the meeting minutes
of the Federal Reserve coming out you
know the month after and so we'll find
out where the Federal Reserve is at for
March but we're going to find out that
in February at least we'll get a hint at
that so all this comes down in the next
two months and you've got to understand
what's been said ever since let me show
you looking at it right here JP Morgan
it's all over now QT given the nent
discussion on slowing and stopping qt in
the December fomc minutes a new uh new
information for the FED leadership in
recent days we have to reevaluate our
own projections what did they say check
this out we now expect that the fomc
these are the people that are actually
voting
all right on the interest rates on the
QT all that stuff okay will have the
outline of a timeline at the January
meeting communicated mid-February
minutes to that meeting we expect that
this plan will be formally agreed to at
the midmar meeting and will be
implemented at the beginning of April
all right that's the plan according to
JP Morgan are they going to be right
time will tell but if it's not in April
is it may is it June I mean they're
going to Signal something and and we
know that that's going to come sooner
rather than later unless there's a
catastrophic event unless some major
catastrophe happens and then that sort
of gets pushed back but as of now that
as of the conditions currently today I
know a lot of people are talking about
this or that but we need to just keep in
mind we only have the information of
today at hand we think the FED could be
targeting reserves closer to 10% share
of nominal
GDP and we envision QT concluding at the
end of November so they'll keep that
going end of November and eventually
they will just say okay and that was it
we got down to you know 6.57 trillion
doll and that's it where is it going to
be where is it going to end well we're
going to find out and ultimately the
more that they keep the less they shed
from their balance sheet the more
long-term inflation we will experience
so keep that in mind fed tiptoes towards
dialing back channel of monetary
tightening this is none other than Nick
timos Nick timos is known as the FED
Whisperer as in they pass information to
him he feeds it through the Wall Street
Journal so then it gets the Market's
reaction to it so they can kind of see
before they even say anything at any of
the meetings
they put it through this guy and um you
know you you'll see what he has to say
look by slowing the pace at which it's
balance sheet shrinks the Central Bank
aims to prevent a messy disruption to
the financial system if you remember if
you've been watching here on this
channel I talked about this already Lori
Logan at the FED brought this up and I
covered it not one two but three videos
before and now Nick timal is bringing
out into the The Wall Street Journal so
keep that in mind all right there's a
lot here that been covered on the
channel before it becomes widespread
mainstream through the FED stop and
raising rates last summer it is quietly
tightening monetary policy through
another Channel shrinking its $7.7
trillion Holdings of bonds and other
assets by around $80 billion a month now
that too may change fed officials are
starting deliberations on slowing though
not ending that so-call quanti
tightening as soon as their policy
meeting this month it could have
important implications for financial
markets and there we go you see this is
exactly what we were talking about Lori
Logan suggested that exact thing and I
know that it's so important you could
see the balance sheet there in the chart
and essentially what we're noticing is
that at this time it's been declining
there's no question about it but we will
be left with more than what we started
before not to mention all the cash and
circulation that's been going on printed
40% of all currency in circulation in a
matter of a year and a half we know that
but now that stuff is not going to just
go away maybe a fraction of it does but
let's be honest what's the most likely
thing to come at the end of it all more
money printing more cash being put out
into the system if it's not now if it's
not tomorrow it's later at some point
your currency is going to get another
hit and another hit and the people who
get hit the hardest are those that are
trying to save money that are trying to
you know make ends meet they're going to
be punished the people that own billions
and billions of dollars of assets
they're happy because their asset prices
just keep going up they don't need to
worry and so this is what's going on
right here so let's get it straight
right now we have a bunch of events in
March that could sort of derail the
plants let's keep that clear that's a
problem however
right now according to data today this
is looking like they may in fact proceed
or start to suggest that the
quantitative tightening will slow not
$80 billion a month maybe it's 60 or
maybe they'll do it in stages at first
it'll be 60 then it'll be 40 then 20
then nothing maybe they'll go in that
direction and they could kind of lay it
out there or they might say okay we're
going to reduce it now but we're going
to play it by ear data dependent and so
on then we got to look at rate Cuts they
might signal right here it looks very
likely that they say we are likely to
stop hiking interest rates and at some
point in the near future we're going to
decrease the interest rates because we
don't want to overshoot on inflation
that's what the message is here today I
have been highly accurate and why
because I watch every single meeting
I've watched them all and I've done that
I've read the books I've done so many
things and they're pretty you know it's
it's it's a pretty um predictable action
when we look at the FED all right what
happens in the economy something occurs
on the other side of the world I can't
predict that but we certainly can look
at what the FED does how they react to
certain information it's it's not an
unknown let's be let's be clear okay
especially when you've read as much of
the history of the central banks as I
have that's my favorite part of of this
is looking at the actions of the central
banks definitely because they are uh the
criminals but anyway um this is
something that I cover every single week
on the Friday sessions um just looking
at the data in depth takes a very long
time I will spend like an hour on this
type of thing in the live sessions
Finance Fridays link will be in the
description um we'll talk about that
later this is just talking about the
stock market cycles and you can see it
over time I want to make something clear
I just talked about this on the Friday
session and you could see it let's be
very upfront so we're looking at the
dates by the way if I scroll down you
can see the dates um I'm trying to zoom
in and give you a good look at that the
overwhelming bias is to buy if you look
at difference between calls and puts
bets that the market will go up or bets
that the market will come down the bias
is on the calls buts that the market go
up and over time there's more buyers
than sellers the stock market goes up
more than it goes down the difference
here is that
the down is very fast and very painful
so it you know kind of goes slowly on
the way up but when it goes down it hits
hard it raises a lot of gains uh that
people are making so just keep that in
mind over this period of time where
people are kind of waiting for a crash
or whatever the vast majority of the
time if you're constantly doing that
then you're there's not that many
opportunities right that's why in 2020
why everybody was saying either just
dollar cost average or other people were
saying you know sell everything uh you
know this is not the time what I was
saying was the best opportunity because
it's very clear that we're going through
a part of the cycle they're going to
print money they're going to do all the
stimulus and they're going to get things
that make the market feel better that
you know we can open up no more
lockdowns all that stuff once that part
is resolved the everything would open up
again and so you got to look at it like
that where all right at some point
things are going to go higher the better
thing to do would be to invest in an
inverse ETF which is basically a bet
that the market will go down knowing
that you've got your stuff over here you
got main portfolio over here you're not
going to sell that because you're going
to say you know what I feel I don't want
to it's in my retirement account I'm not
touching it's right there but that
doesn't mean you can't you know people
were telling you just dollar cost
average at the same time telling you
that the market was going to come down I
mean that's that's crazy talk why not
invested in an inverse ETF to at least
balance out some of that but no no no no
well I was talking about that on the
channel here so anybody that was paying
attention here definitely got that
information you can see the rate cut
expectations in 2024 that's where
they're thinking of going it is several
cuts the expectation of six plus Cuts
I'm not so sure about that but that's
what the market says that changes dayto
day uh but that would mean significant
cuts from this point okay that's most of
what they did um so are they going to do
it I'm not sure but we'll see I mean a
few seems to be likely but six would
mean there's something going on among
the key reasons for the decline of
inflation of the past year where a drop
in energy costs and Supply chains that
are largely ironed out this problems uh
through 2020 the Red Sea turmoil
hampering both of those dis inflationary
forces that Central Bankers were hoping
uh could help finish the job this world
is fragile We Begin the supply side you
get the additional shock it happens and
so on look you got to realize there's
always going to be problems there are
always going to be these issues that
come up and you don't know if it's going
to be in the Red Sea or you don't know
if it's going to be something with the
housing market or the cars or anything
we don't know that but we have to react
as that does come up all right and then
this is just showing us the delinquency
rate of the top 100 largest banks versus
all others and guess who's got problems
right now it's the small Banks the
smaller banks are the ones that are
dealing in fact the highest ever this
chart goes back to 91 we are
experiencing the highest ever
delinquency rates so of course there
credit cards by the way of course this
is a problem and you can see it coming
through in all of the data if you want
the information that I I just there's
just not enough time in YouTube videos
there's just not enough time and I keep
the best stuff for the live sessions
because I can just expand I don't need
to worry about algorithms and all that
stuff and two hours uh every single
Friday we get into that and I hope that
you'll join me on there as well there
will be a link in the description and if
you want to support the channel simply
hit that thumbs up button and I'll see
you tomorrow take care